README.md, before:

# Trigger.dev Self-Hosted Setup

This repository contains Docker Compose configurations for self-hosting Trigger.dev, a powerful workflow automation platform. The setup includes all necessary services: web application, PostgreSQL database, Redis, ElectricSQL, ClickHouse, Docker registry, MinIO object storage, and supervisor components.

## Deployment Options

| Option | Use Case | Location |
|--------|----------|----------|
| **Single Server** | Small to medium workloads, simple setup | `docker-compose.yaml` (root) |
| **Distributed Workers** | High concurrency (1000+), horizontal scaling | [`distributed/`](./distributed/) folder |
| **External Databases** | Use Coolify's managed databases | `docker-compose.external-dbs.yaml` |

### Need High Concurrency?

For workloads requiring 1000+ concurrent tasks, use the **distributed setup** in the [`distributed/`](./distributed/) folder. This allows you to:

- Run workers on multiple servers
- Scale horizontally as needed
- Keep all workers managed by a single webapp
- **Production-ready**: Security hardening, resource limits, log rotation
- **NVMe optimized**: Tuned for Hetzner Cloud servers with NVMe storage
- **4 server tiers**: Pre-configured for 4/8/16/32 vCPU servers

See [`distributed/README.md`](./distributed/README.md) for detailed setup instructions.

## Quick Start with Coolify v4

### Deployment Methods

You can deploy using either method:

**Option A: Link Repository** (recommended for auto-updates)
1. Go to Coolify v4 > Projects > New > **Public GitHub**
2. Enter repository URL: `https://github.com/essamamdani/coolify-trigger-v4.git`
3. Select "Build" > "docker-compose"

**Option B: Copy-Paste Docker Compose** (no repo link needed)
1. Go to Coolify v4 > Projects > New > **Docker Compose**
2. Copy the contents of `docker-compose.yaml` and paste directly
3. All configurations are self-contained - no external file dependencies

### Initial Setup

1. **Add Ports**:
   - Web App: `:3000` (use Coolify generated URL or custom domain)
   - Registry: `:5000` (use Coolify generated URL or custom domain)
2. **Deploy** the application

### Post-Deployment Configuration

After the first deployment, you need to update the network configuration:

1. **Find Network Name**: In your Coolify project, locate the generated network name (it will be something like `project-xxx-net`)
2. **Update Environment**: Add to your `.env` file:
   ```
   DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS=your-generated-network-name
   ```
3. **Redeploy** the application

## Services Overview

- **Web App**: Main Trigger.dev application (Port 3000)
- **PostgreSQL**: Primary database
- **Redis**: Caching and session storage
- **ElectricSQL**: Real-time database synchronization
- **ClickHouse**: Analytics and event storage
- **Registry**: Private Docker registry for deployments (Port 5000)
- **MinIO**: Object storage for packages and assets
- **Supervisor**: Manages worker execution and Docker operations

## Security Configuration

### Registry Authentication

The Docker registry uses HTTP Basic Authentication. **Credentials are automatically generated by Coolify** - no manual setup required!

**How it works:**
- Coolify generates `SERVICE_PASSWORD_REGISTRY` automatically
- The registry creates its htpasswd file at startup using this password
- All services use the same auto-generated password

**Default Settings:**
- Registry URL: `localhost:5000` (internal) or your Coolify domain
- Username: `trigger` (configurable via `REGISTRY_USERNAME`)
- Password: Auto-generated by Coolify (`SERVICE_PASSWORD_REGISTRY`)

To customize the username, set `REGISTRY_USERNAME` in your environment variables.

### Worker Token Authentication

Workers authenticate with the webapp using a **worker token** (`TRIGGER_WORKER_TOKEN`).

**Single-server setup (automatic):**
- Token is generated on first boot and stored in the `shared-data` volume
- Supervisor reads it automatically via `file:///home/node/shared/worker_token`
- Persists across container restarts - no manual action needed

**Distributed setup (one-time manual step):**
- Token must be copied from webapp logs after first deployment
- See [`distributed/README.md`](./distributed/README.md) for instructions
- Once set in Coolify environment variables, it persists permanently

**Why can't the token be pre-generated?**
The token is tied to a database record that the webapp creates. This is a security design in Trigger.dev - random tokens won't work.

### Managed Worker Secret

The `MANAGED_WORKER_SECRET` is automatically generated by Coolify as `SERVICE_PASSWORD_MANAGEDWORKER`. No manual configuration needed.

## Environment Variables

Coolify automatically generates all required `SERVICE_*` environment variables. You can optionally customize the following variables in your `.env` file (see `.env-example` for defaults):

- `POSTGRES_DB`: PostgreSQL database name (default: trigger)
- `REGISTRY_NAMESPACE`: Docker registry namespace (default: trigger)
- `NODE_MAX_OLD_SPACE_SIZE`: Node.js memory limit in MB (default: 1024)
- `TRIGGER_TELEMETRY_DISABLED`: Disable telemetry (default: 0)
- `INTERNAL_OTEL_TRACE_LOGGING_ENABLED`: Enable internal tracing logs (default: 0)

### Optional Configuration

- `REGISTRY_USERNAME`: Registry username (default: `trigger`)
- `DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS`: Docker network name (required - get from Coolify dashboard after first deploy)

## Networking

All services communicate through the `trigger-net` Docker network. The setup is designed to work behind Coolify's reverse proxy.

## Host Requirements

### Redis Memory Overcommit

Redis requires the `vm.overcommit_memory` kernel parameter to be enabled on the host for optimal operation. Without it, you'll see this warning in Redis logs:

```
WARNING Memory overcommit must be enabled! Without it, a background save or replication may fail under low memory condition.
```

**Why this can't be fixed in docker-compose:**
- `vm.overcommit_memory` is a system-wide kernel parameter (not namespaced)
- Docker explicitly blocks it in the sysctl whitelist
- Must be set on the host operating system

**To fix (run on your Coolify server):**

```bash
# Apply immediately
sudo sysctl vm.overcommit_memory=1

# Persist across reboots
echo 'vm.overcommit_memory = 1' | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
```

**For cloud deployments**, add this to your server provisioning script or cloud-init.

> **Note:** The warning is non-fatal. Redis works correctly in most scenarios. Issues only occur during background saves (BGSAVE) or replication under extreme memory pressure.

## Volumes

The following persistent volumes are used:
- `postgres-data`: PostgreSQL data
- `redis-data`: Redis data
- `clickhouse-data`: ClickHouse data
- `minio-data`: MinIO data
- `shared-data`: Shared data between webapp and supervisor
- `registry-data`: Docker registry storage

## Health Checks

All services include health checks to ensure proper startup and monitoring.

## Automatic Backups (Optional)

The setup includes optional backup services for PostgreSQL and Redis that can upload to any S3-compatible storage (AWS S3, MinIO, Backblaze B2, etc.).

### Enabling Backups

Backups are controlled by the `BACKUP_ENABLED` environment variable. To enable them:

1. Set `BACKUP_ENABLED=true` in your environment variables
2. Configure the S3 settings below
3. Redeploy

When disabled (default), the backup containers will start but remain idle (no resources consumed beyond minimal memory).

### Required Environment Variables

When backups are enabled, you must configure these S3 settings:

```env
# Enable backups
BACKUP_ENABLED=true

# S3 Configuration (Required for backups)
BACKUP_S3_ENDPOINT=https://s3.amazonaws.com      # S3-compatible endpoint URL
BACKUP_S3_BUCKET=my-backups                       # Bucket name
BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=your-access-key          # S3 access key
BACKUP_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=your-secret-key      # S3 secret key
BACKUP_S3_REGION=us-east-1                        # S3 region (default: us-east-1)
```

### Backup Path Structure

Backups are automatically organized by your `DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS` value:

```
s3://{BACKUP_S3_BUCKET}/{DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS}/postgres/
s3://{BACKUP_S3_BUCKET}/{DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS}/redis/
```

Example: If `DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS=my-coolify-network`, backups appear at:
- `s3://my-backups/my-coolify-network/postgres/`
- `s3://my-backups/my-coolify-network/redis/`

### Optional Configuration

```env
# PostgreSQL Backup Settings
BACKUP_POSTGRES_SCHEDULE=0 2 * * *               # Cron schedule (default: daily at 2:00 AM)
BACKUP_POSTGRES_KEEP_DAYS=60                      # Retention in days (default: 60)

# Redis Backup Settings
BACKUP_REDIS_SCHEDULE=0 3 * * *                  # Cron schedule (default: daily at 3:00 AM)
BACKUP_REDIS_KEEP_DAYS=60                         # Retention in days (default: 60)
```

### Backup Schedule Format

The schedule uses standard cron format: `minute hour day month weekday`

Examples:
- `0 2 * * *` - Daily at 2:00 AM
- `0 */6 * * *` - Every 6 hours
- `0 2 * * 0` - Weekly on Sunday at 2:00 AM
- `0 2 1 * *` - Monthly on the 1st at 2:00 AM

### Using with MinIO (Local S3)

You can use the included MinIO service as your backup destination:

```env
BACKUP_ENABLED=true
BACKUP_S3_ENDPOINT=http://minio:9000
BACKUP_S3_BUCKET=backups
BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=admin
BACKUP_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${SERVICE_PASSWORD_MINIO}
BACKUP_S3_REGION=us-east-1
```

Note: You'll need to create the `backups` bucket in MinIO first.

### Manual Backup

To trigger an immediate backup (requires `BACKUP_ENABLED=true`):

```bash
# PostgreSQL
docker compose exec postgres-backup /backup.sh

# Redis
docker compose exec redis-backup /backup.sh
```

## Deployment with External Databases

If you want to use Coolify's native database resources (with built-in backup support), use the `docker-compose.external-dbs.yaml` file instead.

### Why Use External Databases?

- **Native Coolify Backups**: Each database gets automatic backup support via Coolify's S3 integration
- **Independent Scaling**: Scale databases separately from application services
- **Better Monitoring**: Individual health monitoring per database in Coolify UI
- **Easier Upgrades**: Update databases independently without redeploying the entire stack

### Setup Steps

1. **Deploy Databases as Coolify Resources**:
   - Go to Coolify > Resources > New > Database
   - Create the following databases:
     - **PostgreSQL 17** (enable `wal_level=logical` in settings)
     - **Redis 7**
     - **ClickHouse**
   - Create a MinIO service:
     - Go to Resources > New > Service > search "MinIO"

2. **Get Connection Strings**:
   After deploying each database, copy their connection URLs from Coolify.

3. **Deploy Application Stack**:
   - Create new resource from this repo
   - Select `docker-compose.external-dbs.yaml` as the compose file
   - Configure the following environment variables:

### Required Environment Variables

```env
# PostgreSQL (from Coolify PostgreSQL resource)
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres:PASSWORD@postgres-uuid.internal:5432/trigger?schema=public&sslmode=disable
DIRECT_URL=postgresql://postgres:PASSWORD@postgres-uuid.internal:5432/trigger?schema=public&sslmode=disable

# Redis (from Coolify Redis resource)
REDIS_HOST=redis-uuid.internal
REDIS_PORT=6379
REDIS_PASSWORD=your-redis-password
REDIS_TLS_DISABLED=true

# ClickHouse (from Coolify ClickHouse resource)
CLICKHOUSE_URL=http://default:PASSWORD@clickhouse-uuid.internal:8123

# MinIO (from Coolify MinIO service)
OBJECT_STORE_BASE_URL=http://minio-uuid.internal:9000
OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS_KEY_ID=admin
OBJECT_STORE_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=your-minio-password

# Application secrets (Coolify auto-generates these)
SERVICE_PASSWORD_SESSION=...
SERVICE_PASSWORD_MAGIC=...
SERVICE_PASSWORD_ENCRYPTION=...
SERVICE_PASSWORD_MANAGEDWORKER=...
SERVICE_PASSWORD_REGISTRY=...

# Registry and network settings
SERVICE_URL_TRIGGER=https://your-trigger-domain.com
SERVICE_FQDN_REGISTRY=registry.your-domain.com
SERVICE_URL_REGISTRY=https://registry.your-domain.com
REGISTRY_USERNAME=trigger
REGISTRY_PASSWORD=your-secure-password
DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS=your-coolify-network
```

### Configuring Backups

Once databases are deployed as Coolify resources:

1. Go to **Settings** > **S3 Storages** in Coolify
2. Add your S3-compatible storage (AWS S3, MinIO, etc.)
3. For each database resource, go to **Backups** tab
4. Configure backup schedule and S3 destination

### Services in External DB Mode

| Service | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| trigger | Main Trigger.dev application |
| electric | ElectricSQL sync service |
| registry | Docker registry for deployments |
| supervisor | Worker supervisor |
| docker-proxy | Docker socket proxy |

## Local Development

### Running Locally

For local development, you can run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

Monitor logs with:
```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

### Deploying to Your Registry

Once your registry is running, you can deploy Trigger.dev workflows to it:

1. **Login to your registry**:
   ```bash
   docker login -u your-username -p 'your-secure-password' registry-domain-name
   ```

2. **Deploy using Trigger.dev CLI**:
   ```bash
   npx trigger.dev@latest deploy
   ```

This will build and deploy your workflows to your self-hosted Trigger.dev registry.

## Support

For issues specific to Trigger.dev, visit the [Trigger.dev documentation](https://trigger.dev/docs) or [GitHub repository](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev).

Commit message:

Add batch queue stuck prevention, monitoring, and documentation
Prevent stuck batch processing caused by leaked Redis concurrency tokens
in Trigger.dev's FairQueue. The root cause is a non-atomic completeMessage()
where visibilityManager.complete() succeeds but concurrencyManager.release()
fails, permanently leaking a concurrency slot.

Changes:
- Add BATCH_CONCURRENCY_LIMIT_DEFAULT=10 (from default 1) to all 3 compose
  files so a single leaked token no longer blocks all batch processing
- Add monitoring script (scripts/monitor-batch-queue.sh) with surgical
  auto-fix that only cleans Redis state for specific stuck batch IDs
- Add comprehensive diagnosis & fix guide (docs/batch-queue-stuck-fix.md)
- Fix GRACEFUL_SHUTDOWN_TIMEOUT in external-dbs compose (1000 -> 30000)
- Fix NODE_MAX_OLD_SPACE_SIZE default in README (1024 -> 16384)
- Update README to recommend distributed setup for production
- Add .env.monitor.example template and .gitignore entry

README.md, after:

# Trigger.dev Self-Hosted Setup

This repository contains Docker Compose configurations for self-hosting Trigger.dev, a powerful workflow automation platform. The setup includes all necessary services: web application, PostgreSQL database, Redis, ElectricSQL, ClickHouse, Docker registry, MinIO object storage, and supervisor components.

## Deployment Options

| Option | Use Case | Location |
|--------|----------|----------|
| **Distributed (Recommended)** | Production workloads, horizontal scaling | [`distributed/`](./distributed/) folder |
| **Single Server** | Development, testing, or low-traffic workloads | `docker-compose.yaml` (root) |
| **External Databases** | Use Coolify's managed databases | `docker-compose.external-dbs.yaml` |

### Recommended: Distributed Setup

The **distributed setup** in [`distributed/`](./distributed/) is the recommended approach for all production deployments. It separates the webapp (with databases) from workers, giving you:

- **Horizontal scaling**: Add worker servers as your workload grows
- **Independent scaling**: Scale workers without affecting the webapp or databases
- **Better reliability**: Worker crashes don't impact the webapp or other workers
- **Production-ready**: Security hardening, resource limits, log rotation, batch queue tuning
- **NVMe optimized**: Tuned for Hetzner Cloud servers with NVMe storage
- **4 server tiers**: Pre-configured for 4/8/16/32 vCPU servers

See [`distributed/README.md`](./distributed/README.md) for detailed setup instructions.

> The single-server setup (`docker-compose.yaml`) is suitable for development and testing but runs all services on one machine, which limits scalability and fault isolation.

## Quick Start with Coolify v4

### Deployment Methods

You can deploy using either method:

**Option A: Link Repository** (recommended for auto-updates)
1. Go to Coolify v4 > Projects > New > **Public GitHub**
2. Enter repository URL: `https://github.com/essamamdani/coolify-trigger-v4.git`
3. Select "Build" > "docker-compose"

**Option B: Copy-Paste Docker Compose** (no repo link needed)
1. Go to Coolify v4 > Projects > New > **Docker Compose**
2. Copy the contents of `docker-compose.yaml` and paste directly
3. All configurations are self-contained - no external file dependencies

### Initial Setup

1. **Add Ports**:
   - Web App: `:3000` (use Coolify generated URL or custom domain)
   - Registry: `:5000` (use Coolify generated URL or custom domain)
2. **Deploy** the application

### Post-Deployment Configuration

After the first deployment, you need to update the network configuration:

1. **Find Network Name**: In your Coolify project, locate the generated network name (it will be something like `project-xxx-net`)
2. **Update Environment**: Add to your `.env` file:
   ```
   DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS=your-generated-network-name
   ```
3. **Redeploy** the application

## Services Overview

- **Web App**: Main Trigger.dev application (Port 3000)
- **PostgreSQL**: Primary database
- **Redis**: Caching and session storage
- **ElectricSQL**: Real-time database synchronization
- **ClickHouse**: Analytics and event storage
- **Registry**: Private Docker registry for deployments (Port 5000)
- **MinIO**: Object storage for packages and assets
- **Supervisor**: Manages worker execution and Docker operations

## Security Configuration

### Registry Authentication

The Docker registry uses HTTP Basic Authentication. **Credentials are automatically generated by Coolify** - no manual setup required!

**How it works:**
- Coolify generates `SERVICE_PASSWORD_REGISTRY` automatically
- The registry creates its htpasswd file at startup using this password
- All services use the same auto-generated password

**Default Settings:**
- Registry URL: `localhost:5000` (internal) or your Coolify domain
- Username: `trigger` (configurable via `REGISTRY_USERNAME`)
- Password: Auto-generated by Coolify (`SERVICE_PASSWORD_REGISTRY`)

To customize the username, set `REGISTRY_USERNAME` in your environment variables.

### Worker Token Authentication

Workers authenticate with the webapp using a **worker token** (`TRIGGER_WORKER_TOKEN`).

**Single-server setup (automatic):**
- Token is generated on first boot and stored in the `shared-data` volume
- Supervisor reads it automatically via `file:///home/node/shared/worker_token`
- Persists across container restarts - no manual action needed

**Distributed setup (one-time manual step):**
- Token must be copied from webapp logs after first deployment
- See [`distributed/README.md`](./distributed/README.md) for instructions
- Once set in Coolify environment variables, it persists permanently

**Why can't the token be pre-generated?**
The token is tied to a database record that the webapp creates. This is a security design in Trigger.dev - random tokens won't work.

### Managed Worker Secret

The `MANAGED_WORKER_SECRET` is automatically generated by Coolify as `SERVICE_PASSWORD_MANAGEDWORKER`. No manual configuration needed.

## Environment Variables

Coolify automatically generates all required `SERVICE_*` environment variables. You can optionally customize the following variables in your `.env` file (see `.env-example` for defaults):

- `POSTGRES_DB`: PostgreSQL database name (default: trigger)
- `REGISTRY_NAMESPACE`: Docker registry namespace (default: trigger)
- `NODE_MAX_OLD_SPACE_SIZE`: Node.js memory limit in MB (default: 16384)
- `TRIGGER_TELEMETRY_DISABLED`: Disable telemetry (default: 0)
- `INTERNAL_OTEL_TRACE_LOGGING_ENABLED`: Enable internal tracing logs (default: 0)

### Optional Configuration

- `REGISTRY_USERNAME`: Registry username (default: `trigger`)
- `DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS`: Docker network name (required - get from Coolify dashboard after first deploy)

## Networking

All services communicate through the `trigger-net` Docker network. The setup is designed to work behind Coolify's reverse proxy.

## Host Requirements

### Redis Memory Overcommit

Redis requires the `vm.overcommit_memory` kernel parameter to be enabled on the host for optimal operation. Without it, you'll see this warning in Redis logs:

```
WARNING Memory overcommit must be enabled! Without it, a background save or replication may fail under low memory condition.
```

**Why this can't be fixed in docker-compose:**
- `vm.overcommit_memory` is a system-wide kernel parameter (not namespaced)
- Docker explicitly blocks it in the sysctl whitelist
- Must be set on the host operating system

**To fix (run on your Coolify server):**

```bash
# Apply immediately
sudo sysctl vm.overcommit_memory=1

# Persist across reboots
echo 'vm.overcommit_memory = 1' | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
```

**For cloud deployments**, add this to your server provisioning script or cloud-init.

> **Note:** The warning is non-fatal. Redis works correctly in most scenarios. Issues only occur during background saves (BGSAVE) or replication under extreme memory pressure.

## Volumes

The following persistent volumes are used:
- `postgres-data`: PostgreSQL data
- `redis-data`: Redis data
- `clickhouse-data`: ClickHouse data
- `minio-data`: MinIO data
- `shared-data`: Shared data between webapp and supervisor
- `registry-data`: Docker registry storage

## Health Checks

All services include health checks to ensure proper startup and monitoring.

## Automatic Backups (Optional)

The setup includes optional backup services for PostgreSQL and Redis that can upload to any S3-compatible storage (AWS S3, MinIO, Backblaze B2, etc.).

### Enabling Backups

Backups are controlled by the `BACKUP_ENABLED` environment variable. To enable them:

1. Set `BACKUP_ENABLED=true` in your environment variables
2. Configure the S3 settings below
3. Redeploy

When disabled (default), the backup containers will start but remain idle (no resources consumed beyond minimal memory).

### Required Environment Variables

When backups are enabled, you must configure these S3 settings:

```env
# Enable backups
BACKUP_ENABLED=true

# S3 Configuration (Required for backups)
BACKUP_S3_ENDPOINT=https://s3.amazonaws.com      # S3-compatible endpoint URL
BACKUP_S3_BUCKET=my-backups                       # Bucket name
BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=your-access-key          # S3 access key
BACKUP_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=your-secret-key      # S3 secret key
BACKUP_S3_REGION=us-east-1                        # S3 region (default: us-east-1)
```

### Backup Path Structure

Backups are automatically organized by your `DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS` value:

```
s3://{BACKUP_S3_BUCKET}/{DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS}/postgres/
s3://{BACKUP_S3_BUCKET}/{DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS}/redis/
```

Example: If `DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS=my-coolify-network`, backups appear at:
- `s3://my-backups/my-coolify-network/postgres/`
- `s3://my-backups/my-coolify-network/redis/`

### Optional Configuration

```env
# PostgreSQL Backup Settings
BACKUP_POSTGRES_SCHEDULE=0 2 * * *               # Cron schedule (default: daily at 2:00 AM)
BACKUP_POSTGRES_KEEP_DAYS=60                      # Retention in days (default: 60)

# Redis Backup Settings
BACKUP_REDIS_SCHEDULE=0 3 * * *                  # Cron schedule (default: daily at 3:00 AM)
BACKUP_REDIS_KEEP_DAYS=60                         # Retention in days (default: 60)
```

### Backup Schedule Format

The schedule uses standard cron format: `minute hour day month weekday`

Examples:
- `0 2 * * *` - Daily at 2:00 AM
- `0 */6 * * *` - Every 6 hours
- `0 2 * * 0` - Weekly on Sunday at 2:00 AM
- `0 2 1 * *` - Monthly on the 1st at 2:00 AM

### Using with MinIO (Local S3)

You can use the included MinIO service as your backup destination:

```env
BACKUP_ENABLED=true
BACKUP_S3_ENDPOINT=http://minio:9000
BACKUP_S3_BUCKET=backups
BACKUP_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=admin
BACKUP_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${SERVICE_PASSWORD_MINIO}
BACKUP_S3_REGION=us-east-1
```

Note: You'll need to create the `backups` bucket in MinIO first.

### Manual Backup

To trigger an immediate backup (requires `BACKUP_ENABLED=true`):

```bash
# PostgreSQL
docker compose exec postgres-backup /backup.sh

# Redis
docker compose exec redis-backup /backup.sh
```

## Deployment with External Databases

If you want to use Coolify's native database resources (with built-in backup support), use the `docker-compose.external-dbs.yaml` file instead.

### Why Use External Databases?

- **Native Coolify Backups**: Each database gets automatic backup support via Coolify's S3 integration
- **Independent Scaling**: Scale databases separately from application services
- **Better Monitoring**: Individual health monitoring per database in Coolify UI
- **Easier Upgrades**: Update databases independently without redeploying the entire stack

### Setup Steps

1. **Deploy Databases as Coolify Resources**:
   - Go to Coolify > Resources > New > Database
   - Create the following databases:
     - **PostgreSQL 17** (enable `wal_level=logical` in settings)
     - **Redis 7**
     - **ClickHouse**
   - Create a MinIO service:
     - Go to Resources > New > Service > search "MinIO"

2. **Get Connection Strings**:
   After deploying each database, copy their connection URLs from Coolify.

3. **Deploy Application Stack**:
   - Create new resource from this repo
   - Select `docker-compose.external-dbs.yaml` as the compose file
   - Configure the following environment variables:

### Required Environment Variables

```env
# PostgreSQL (from Coolify PostgreSQL resource)
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres:PASSWORD@postgres-uuid.internal:5432/trigger?schema=public&sslmode=disable
DIRECT_URL=postgresql://postgres:PASSWORD@postgres-uuid.internal:5432/trigger?schema=public&sslmode=disable

# Redis (from Coolify Redis resource)
REDIS_HOST=redis-uuid.internal
REDIS_PORT=6379
REDIS_PASSWORD=your-redis-password
REDIS_TLS_DISABLED=true

# ClickHouse (from Coolify ClickHouse resource)
CLICKHOUSE_URL=http://default:PASSWORD@clickhouse-uuid.internal:8123

# MinIO (from Coolify MinIO service)
OBJECT_STORE_BASE_URL=http://minio-uuid.internal:9000
OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS_KEY_ID=admin
OBJECT_STORE_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=your-minio-password

# Application secrets (Coolify auto-generates these)
SERVICE_PASSWORD_SESSION=...
SERVICE_PASSWORD_MAGIC=...
SERVICE_PASSWORD_ENCRYPTION=...
SERVICE_PASSWORD_MANAGEDWORKER=...
SERVICE_PASSWORD_REGISTRY=...

# Registry and network settings
SERVICE_URL_TRIGGER=https://your-trigger-domain.com
SERVICE_FQDN_REGISTRY=registry.your-domain.com
SERVICE_URL_REGISTRY=https://registry.your-domain.com
REGISTRY_USERNAME=trigger
REGISTRY_PASSWORD=your-secure-password
DOCKER_RUNNER_NETWORKS=your-coolify-network
```

### Configuring Backups

Once databases are deployed as Coolify resources:

1. Go to **Settings** > **S3 Storages** in Coolify
2. Add your S3-compatible storage (AWS S3, MinIO, etc.)
3. For each database resource, go to **Backups** tab
4. Configure backup schedule and S3 destination

### Services in External DB Mode

| Service | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| trigger | Main Trigger.dev application |
| electric | ElectricSQL sync service |
| registry | Docker registry for deployments |
| supervisor | Worker supervisor |
| docker-proxy | Docker socket proxy |

## Local Development

### Running Locally

For local development, you can run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

Monitor logs with:
```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

### Deploying to Your Registry

Once your registry is running, you can deploy Trigger.dev workflows to it:

1. **Login to your registry**:
   ```bash
   docker login -u your-username -p 'your-secure-password' registry-domain-name
   ```

2. **Deploy using Trigger.dev CLI**:
   ```bash
   npx trigger.dev@latest deploy
   ```

This will build and deploy your workflows to your self-hosted Trigger.dev registry.

## Support

For issues specific to Trigger.dev, visit the [Trigger.dev documentation](https://trigger.dev/docs) or [GitHub repository](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev).
